README.md, before:

# gitpodVNC

Accessing VNC running in GitPod via a VNC Client.

1. If you don't have an SSH key pair pair on your local machine, create one:
    ```
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519
    ```
2. Copy contents of public SSH key file (typically `~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`
3. Add "New SSH" key in GitPod User Settings and paste in the public SSH key.
4. Click the button below:

   [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://gitlab.com/hfossedu/kits/kitclient-gitpod-runner)

5. Choose "Terminal" in the "Editor/Browser" dropdown (the middle one).
6. Click "Contine"
7. In the GitPod terminal in the browser:
   ```
   ./startup.bash
   ```
   This command waits for the servers to start and then gives instructions for connecting via noVNC and VNC.
8. When done, in the GitPod terminal in the browser:
   ```
   gp stop
   ```
   Or use the GitPod Dashboard.

## Notes:
- Content in the Linux desktop is preserved across workspace stops and starts.
  - i.e. Everyting done in GitKit is saved between workspace sessions.
    - Apparently GitPod preserves docker volumes for us automatically!
 
## Open Questions:
- Is there a convenient way to start an existing Workspace? (e.g. like the "Open in GitPod" button above?)
  - I.e. how do we prevent the mistake of creating a new workspace every time?
- Does the server timeout if left idle?  If so how long?
  - I.e. will it happen mid work if someone take a bathroom break?
- How do we keep students from burning up their free credits?
- Is it a problem that each new workspace creates a new "known host" for ssh?
- Should we create a custom image that just does what `startup.bash` does?
  - Can be listed in `.gitpod.yml` to start it instead of the terminal image. 
  - This would eliminate the step of having them run `./startup.bash` in the GitPod terminal.
  - Should be a pretty simple thing to do.
    - Could even do it with a Dockerfile here and let GitPod do the build for us :)
    - https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/workspaces/workspace-image#using-a-custom-dockerfile
    - This would let us trim the image down quite a bit too since we can start from `gitpod/workspace-base` instead of `gitpod/workspace-full`
- Would it make sense to eventually build the linux KitClient on the `gitpod/worspace-full-vnc` image instead?

Commit message:

Update README.md for change to run `./startup.bash` as a task.

README.md, after:

# gitpodVNC

Accessing VNC running in GitPod via a VNC Client.

1. If you don't have an SSH key pair pair on your local machine, create one:
    ```
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519
    ```
2. Copy contents of public SSH key file (typically `~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`
3. Add "New SSH" key in GitPod User Settings and paste in the public SSH key.
4. Click the button below:

   [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://gitlab.com/hfossedu/kits/kitclient-gitpod-runner)

5. Choose "Terminal" in the "Editor/Browser" dropdown (the middle one).
6. Click "Contine"
7. Wait for VNC to start and follow the directions displayed in the terminal to connect to the client.
8. When done, in the GitPod terminal in the browser:
   ```
   gp stop
   ```
   Or use the GitPod Dashboard.

## Notes:
- Content in the Linux desktop is preserved across workspace stops and starts.
  - i.e. Everyting done in GitKit is saved between workspace sessions.
    - Apparently GitPod preserves docker volumes for us automatically!
 
## Open Questions:
- Is there a convenient way to start an existing Workspace? (e.g. like the "Open in GitPod" button above?)
  - I.e. how do we prevent the mistake of creating a new workspace every time?
- Does the server timeout if left idle?  If so how long?
  - I.e. will it happen mid work if someone take a bathroom break?
- How do we keep students from burning up their free credits?
- Is it a problem that each new workspace creates a new "known host" for ssh?
- Would it make sense to eventually build the linux KitClient on the `gitpod/worspace-full-vnc` image instead?
